## **connection configuration description**

### **1. MariaDB Installation instructions.**

Please follow the instructions below to ensure successful addition and usage of the MariaDB database in Tapdata.

### **2. Supported versions.**
MariaDB 10.x

### **3. Prerequisites (as the source).**
#### **3.1 Enable Binlog.**
- Binlog must be enabled on MariaDB for Tapdata to successfully complete synchronization tasks.
- Cascade deletion (CASCADE DELETE) generated by the database is not supported because it is not recorded in the binlog.
  Modify `$MYSQL_HOME/mysql.cnf `, For example:
```
server_id         = 223344
log_bin           = mysql-bin
expire_logs_days  = 1
binlog_format     = row
```
Configuration explanation：<br>
server-id: For MariaDB, each server and replication client must have a unique identifier.<br>
binlog_format：It must be set to "row" or "ROW".<br>
expire_logs_days：The number of days to retain binary log files. They will be automatically deleted upon expiration.<br>
log_bin：The base name of the binlog sequence files.<br>

#### **3.2 Restart MariaDB.**

```
/etc/inint.d/mysqld restart
```
To verify that binlog is enabled, please execute the following command in the MySQL shell:
```
show variables like 'binlog_format';
```
In the output result, the format value should be 'ROW'.

#### **3.3 Create a MariaDB account**
##### **3.3.1 Version 10.x**
```
create user 'username'@'localhost' identified by 'password';
```

#### **3.4 Grant permissions to the tapdata account.**
Grant the SELECT privilege to a specific database.
```
GRANT SELECT, SHOW VIEW, CREATE ROUTINE, LOCK TABLES ON <DATABASE_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME> TO 'tapdata' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
```
Grant global privileges.
```
GRANT RELOAD, SHOW DATABASES, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, SUPER ON *.* TO 'tapdata' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
```
###  **4. Prerequisites (as the target)**
Grant all privileges to a specific database.
```
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON <DATABASE_NAME>.<TABLE_NAME> TO 'tapdata' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
```
Grant global privileges.
```
GRANT PROCESS ON *.* TO 'tapdata' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
```